URL: https://tradingedge.club/posts/market-analysis-ahead-of-gdp

Título: Market Analysis Ahead of GDP

Contenido:
Housekeeping: When I announced the launch of the live unusual flow feed on the data site, I was surprised when many commented that they didn't even know the data tools site existed! This is one of the things I have been working hard to improve for the community, and every Trading Edge member has access to it. 
I will share more education on it in time, but there are so many useful data analysis tools that I personally had built for myself to use and by extension all of you as well, to aid my analysis. And it is being improved constantly with more and more updates every month. 
The link is: https://tools.tradingedge.club
The password is GoWithTheFlow but I am aware there's some unauthorised access, so actual account logins linked to your Mighty nEtworks Trading Edge account are ready to be launched to police this. For now, you can still use the password posted here. 
Go and check it out and share feedback, good or bad! 
Anyway, let's get into it:
Let’s begin today’s report by getting straight into looking at price action with regards to our liquidity zones.
Although price broke out of the iron condor yesterday, it stopped close to quant’s intraday resistance, and has yet managed to break out of the upside pivot. 
image link (useful if the zoom functionality on images in the app still isn't working (technical difficulties)): https://postimg.cc/WdmfWjDY
Nonetheless, we have built a cushion of 1.37% to the liquidity zone, so we have now established space for volatility’s without buyers losing their advantage on the ape. 
Remember, aa long as price trades above the liquidity zone, buyers clearly have an advantage on the tape, which gets pressed home on a sustained break above the upside pivot. Below the liquidity zone, that shifts to sellers, which gets driven home on a break below 6700. 
The gamma flip level is currently at 6805. This is the level that separates a positive gamma environment from a negative gamma environment. Remember, that in a positive gamma environment, which exists above the gamma flip, market makers hedge against price action. That means to say, that when SPX is falling, they will buy futures. When it is rising, they will SELL futures. This makes for more dampened and predictable price action. It is when we drop into negative gamma, that things get more volatile and dangerous on teh downside, since market makers will be hedging IN THE DIRECTION of price action, thus creating exacerbated moves.
Because of the significance of this level for the gamma environment, it typically will hold as a supportive level of interest, so this level also protects the liquidity zone. 
For now, buyers remain dominant and in control on this tape. 
With regards to the upside pivot, with GDP to be released today, it is possible that that may act as a catalyst for an upside break, but we have to see how the data looks.
In yesterday’s report, I broke down the 4 possible scenarios for GDP, and how the market is likley to react to each. 
I have copied the relevant section of yesterday’s report below for your convenience as a recap:  
From a data perspective, the main print of the week is the GDP number. 
Conesnus for the print is around 3.2%, but Fed GDPNow has been running above that—about 3.5%. With the headline growth print, we will also get some price action. 
If we get a positive GDP surprise and prices are lower, that is probably the most bullish scenario for price as it signals a strong economy, and prices falling to allow even more accomodation from the fed. 
GDP lower and prices lower is also bullish even if initial price action stalls, because the lower GDP will push the Fed to be accommodative alos, since we have already heard from Powell that the Fed’s decision making is driven by  the labour market and growth concerns. 
GDP miss, and prices higher is the worst case scenario as it signals possible stagflation. 
Higher GDP and higher prices may see an initial drop, but again, not a bad outcome, since we know the Fed is currently dismissing inflation concerns as temporary. 
To me, the GDP higher. Prices lower goldilocks scenario is the most likely. 
For now, consumption continues to act as a buffer for GDP, even as employment conditions soften and forward-looking risks around income growth begin to build. This should hopefully reinforce the fact that GDP numbers come in strong. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/wtf2ZB9P
As such, the upward pivot is on watch should GDP come in line with my expectations, which would then open the door to 7k soon after. 
The consensus amongst the majority of quants that I have access to, appears to be that price is expected to be supportive through most of Q1. The question is just whether we get one more test of the liquidity zone.
Once we can break above the upward pivot, then we exit the window of risk and downside pressure gets eased. 
The next window of risk is expected to be towards the end of Q1, so we should have a sustained period of strength, where upside targets are above 7200 in that period.
This take is also mostly in line with Scott Rubner’s comments from Citadel. Scott is one of the few Wall Street analysts, whose comments I actually put any weight on. Below are his comments: 
image link: https://postimg.cc/V0MFJBnV
Discussing them briefly, 3 important things he mentioend were fiscal impulse, monetary conditions and political uncertainty easing. 
I am not sure the case for political uncertainty easing, but the point on fiscal impulse is 100% correct. 
If we look at this fiscal impulse chart, tracking the last 2 years vs the current year, we see that from week 17 (of the fiscal impulse year not calendar year), we get this sharp increase in fiscal impulse. 
Week 17 lines up to the middle of January, hence this suggests supportive fiscal impulse through the rest of Q1. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/qzsL0wkh
We also have the point on monetary conditions easing. We know that Trump’s next Fed chair appointment, whether that be Hassett or Warsh, will be expected to push through more rate cuts from May. 
As a side note, contrast that to the comments from the RBA minutes from the December meeting, which were released today and you can see the clear case for dollar debasement. 
We have already discussed before that many global central banks, including Australia, ECB and Japan are moving towards rate HIKES, not rate cuts, and this was reinforced in the RBA minutes, where it showed that the RBA held explicit discussions around hat conditions would warrant rate hikes in 2026, given shifting inflation risk. 
Put a hawkish global central bank backdrop together with a Fed that is going to be under pressure to be as dovish as one can possibly be, coupled with an administration who’s plan to “grow our way out of debt” shows no consideration for fiscal responsibility, and we have a clear path towards dollar debasement.
And with that, commodities such as gold, silver, copper are all likely to extend their bull cycle further. 
Coming back to Scott Rubner’s note, whilst Warsh or Hassett’s official appointment is a clear dovish shift, I would argue that the probability of a January rate cut probably should be more than what the market is currently pricing it at.
Currently, the market has it at just 19% likely. In my view, the probability is actually more like 50/50. Sure, we might not get one, but there is still a good case that we do.
The inflation reading was incredibly soft (although the Fed is likely to receive the print with skepticism, given the unreliability of the data collection), and unemployment in the recent labour market report ticked up to a cycle high. That to me is the more important point than inflation, since we know from various comments from Powell since Jackson Hole that the labour market and growth concerns are the main priority. GDP data could be another data point the FEd looks at, but to me, given the data we received last week, but also considering the fact that the data was influenced by the government shutdown, a lot will ride on next month’s NFP data, which is released BEFORE the next FOMC meeting.
If this confirms that the unemployment rate is rising, which very well could be the case, then I think we see the Fed go for one more rate cut in January, before a multi month pause. That wasn’t the message communicated by the Fed in the SEP at the last meeting, which is why the market is not pricing it, but inflation already came in below the Fed’s own forecasts and unemployment rising will be a concern. 
These comments from Fed governor Williams’s confirms that, and Williams is often taken as a proxy for Fed chair Powell:
Labor market risks have risen as risks to inflation have eased.
As such, the point Rubner makes about accommodative monetary policy is true regardless as policy sits near neutral and the Fed is looking to conduct QE style (but not QE) liquidity injections from next year. However, depending on next month’s NFP print, we could see the fEd get even more accommodative, which would further support a rally higher. 
Rubner notes that positioning is far from crowder, which again is totally true looking at the following data:
image link: https://postimg.cc/zypFHfHn
Equity positioning is only neutral despite the marke trading at highs, which gives more room for upside. 
Rubner also commented on persistence of retail demand, and we see that to also be true. 
Currently nearly half of US equities are owned by households. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/D4Vr3JRk
At the same time, Bessent made comments last week that the Trump administration wants “All Americans to own stocks”. Currently that percentage is around 38% of Americans, the aim is to get that to 0%, Bessent said. 
All of that will increase retail participation in the market. Into next year.
All in all, his note seems very possible and is in line with a lot of the discussions I am having with whatever contacts I have on my side also. This isn’t a suggestion that I am connected to serious insiders, but whatever knowledgeable people on the market whose opinion I trust, lean towards a supportive Q1 at least until towards the end. We can’t be married to any bias, but the hopes are high once we can clear this upside pivot zone.
Yesterday, VIX made headlines as it fell to a 52 week low. 
Looking at the VVIX, which typically leads the VIX, there is a good chance that VIX continues to remain suppressed, if not could head lower. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/fJNcHdxW
Yesterday, I mentioned the weak support in the positioning profile at 14.5 from the slight call delta at that strike. 
Yesterday, we broke this level and remain at the lows, near 14. 
Looking at the update positioning, we see that at these lows, the delta is pretty thin. There isn’t much action happening on significant downside, but at the same time, the put delta ITM is still very strong from 16 upwards, which means market makers will step in to try to sell VIX on any upticks. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/Yv217wDB
As such, whilst I can’t explicitly predict a significantly lower VIX based on this positioning, it does look like VIX will remain suppressed at least, which is supportive for the market.
I think this is true when we consider where VVIX is trading also. The rule in trading is typically that when VIX is above 110-120, VIX will be under pressure to rise more meaningfully. We are quite far below these levels for now. This doesn’t mean to say VIX can’t rise, as of course, any tape bombs of news can create a reaction, but it is under mechanical pressure to remain below 17. 
Short VIX ETFs were also seeing volume in the database yesterday, which is a bet that VIX remains low or heads lower. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/SnZcNtHt
With most things already discussed, and with price action pretty comfortable right now, subject to GDP, I want to discuss a piece that I was reading yesterday from BofA, regarding the common question at the moment: is AI in a bubble or not?
The piece is below, (click the link to zoom in if you can’t on the app directly)
https://postimg.cc/cg33h1Cb
But the point being made here is that BofA found that all bubbles have same quality; studies an assets distribution, returns, volatility, momentum, convexity. They used these factors to create a Bubble Risk indicator, which measures bubble like behaviour in markets. 

What they found is that 7 out of 8 of the major historical bubbles were flagged by the indicator since 1920s. The indicator triggers when the reading goes above 0.8. 
According to BofA, the highest reading we have received in this AI supercyle has been 0.7, and currently we are WAY off that at just 0.25. 
According to BofA then, we are clearly NOT in an AI bubble, which is in line with my own opinion. 
This is reinforced by the following chart from Goldman which shows that when we actually do have bubbles that are ready to pop, the last year of price action is typically absolutely parabolic. Right now, we are certainly NOT at that point, looking at the chart. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/ZvFdkfrq
Hence again, Goldman Sachs argues that AI is NOT a bubble.