URL: https://tradingedge.club/posts/market-analysis-for-the-week-ahead-95379619

Título: Market Analysis For the Week Ahead

Contenido:
Housekeeping: When I announced the launch of the live unusual flow feed on the data site, I was surprised when many commented that they didn't even know the data tools site existed! This is one of the things I have been working hard to improve for the community, and every Trading Edge member has access to it.
I will share more education on it in time, but there are so many useful data analysis tools that I personally had built for myself to use and by extension all of you as well, to aid my analysis. And it is being improved constantly with more and more updates every month.
The link is: https://tools.tradingedge.club
The password is GoWithTheFlow but I am aware there's some unauthorised access, so actual account logins linked to your Mighty nEtworks Trading Edge account are ready to be launched to police this. For now, you can still use the password posted here.
Go and check it out and share feedback, good or bad!
Anyway, into today's report.
To recap what we saw last week, we had this big midweek sell off, a low probability move, that broke Quant’s support zone which was set at 6744-6765 for the day and plunged right through the liquidity zone (the battleground between buyers and sellers). 
This came on reports that Blue Owl Capital had backed out of funding Oracle’s planned $10B Michigan datacenter, which was also compounded by overnight news that China had built a new working prototype of an EUV lithography machine, which also weighted on semiconductors. 
Blue Owl is a private credit lender and has been funding a ton of data center deals. The fact that they pulled out of funding ORCL, was perceived by the market as a concern over ORCL's debt.
However, this was likely an overreaction rooted in weak AI sentiment. 
Firstly, Blue Owl likely did NOT pull out because they are concerned with ORCL's debt. Even outside of this deal, Blue OWL has massive exposure to ORCL through their Abilene and New Mexico sites, which are both 1GW projects.
Blue Owl, one would expect, as is standard for these credit lenders, will have bylaws restricting how much concentration they can take in a single portfolio company. With their existing deals, they were already very likely at concentration thresholds with ORCL, and so they pushed for better economics on this site.
As such, ORCL found someone else. Bloomberg is reporting that this "someone else" is Blackstone, but ultimately, the key is that ORCL were easily able to find a financing partner, which to me made the sell off overblown.
Fortunately, sentiment and price action shifted strongly into the back end of the week, as CPI came in well below expectations, despite some ambiguity and skepticism over the legitimacy of the numbers. 
Furthermore, we saw a massive rotation back into high beta/AI growth names, many of which are down 50% over teh past 2 months, on the news of OpenAI’s $100B funding round, at a valuation north of $800M. 
This funding round isn’t expected to close until Q1 2026, but does help to address key sentiment concerns around ORCL. 
ORCL currently carries $127B of total debt, with $25B maturing within the next three years, whilst trailing 12m FCF sits at –$13 billion. That combination materially raises execution risk, particularly if key counterparties such as OpenAI were to delay, renegotiate, or walk away from portions of their long-term capacity commitments.
OpenAI’s funding round helps to mitigate some of this risk, and ensures that OpenAI will have financial means to honour their financial obligations to ORCL.
And ORCL, as we see here, is the key to the price action on both crypto, and high beta growth names:
Image link (no ads) incase you need to zoom in: https://postimg.cc/PLmpRRYw
There is a very striking correlation between the 3, as sentiment deterioration over ORCL spills over into other popular names. 
As such, the question now is whether we get a follow through on the AI names this week and ORCL in particular.
Friday’s price action highlighted just how fast money will rotate into the sector when we get a more sustainable improvement in sentiment. 
After all, if you read this tweet by David Sacks on Friday, you see just how big a role AI has to play in underpinning US growth. The fact that the sentiment has got quite as bearish as it has, whilst fundamentals have continued to remain mostly solid is essentially signs of a shakeout, which represents a significant risk of a short squeeze higher.
image link: https://postimg.cc/zV6yXrk3
There is clearly plenty of room for upside here. CRWV put in a +22% day on Friday, whilst LEU put in a +16% move.

Despite that, both names still below the 9W EMA, which raises 2 points:
Firstly, that we shouldn’t yet get ahead of ourselves after Friday’s rally. WE do still need to see AI names put in some follow through, and ORCL to get back over 200. 
Secondly, the upside squeeze potential is insane if the market continues to rotate into AI, as there is still so much upside to catch.
The question is just whether we can see that follow through. ORCL and CRWV both up 2% in premraket is a positive sign, but this needs to be something to keep an eye on this week. 
From a technical perspective, We managed to rally back on SPX, and maintained the weekly close above the 9EMA. 
https://postimg.cc/5H1N6NQy
Since the rally started in April, we have only had one close below the weekly 9EMA, which rallied straight back the following week, so this is a key momentum indicator to watch in the mid term. 
RSP (equal weight SPX) showed weakness midweek, but ultimately closed above the S/R zone, thus maintaining its positive breakout. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/9w4cvDs2
This is a bullish sign for the expansion of market breadth. 
The tech leaders, the mag7 held the 9W EMA, and looks as though it is setting up on the weekly chart:
image link: https://postimg.cc/QFZjyxmN
If we can break higher here, that will set up a push to ATH on MAGS and ultimately, QQQ Will follow. 
IN terms of the liquidity zones, to help you to navigate price action, we are pretty much as we were:
image link: https://postimg.cc/8JYSB1c0
The liquidity zone is still in that grey box, and this represents the battleground between buyers and sellers. Above that liquidity zone, and buyers have a clear advantage of the tape and the bias for price action is higher. Below the liquidity zone, sellers have advantage of the tape. 
Ultimately, buyers need to take out the upside pivot, to really drive home their advantage and to push price more significantly higher. 
If we can take out the upside pivot, then the conversation goes towards 7000 on SPX, and even 7200 in early Q1 2026.
If the liquidity zone is broken to the downside, sellers take advantage, and this advantage is driven home if we break below 6700.
To me, it seems like price wants to go higher into 2026. Amongst the quants I speak to within the industry, that seems to be consensus, but the question is whether price wants to go back and retest the liquidity zone (or just below it) again before pushing higher from there. 
Looking to the week ahead, this week, being a shortened week around the Christmas holiday, is likely to see very low volume. That doesn’t mean to say we can’t see big moves, as we saw during the Thanksgiving week, but we need to see if the price action in the early new year can confirm the moves, when volume returns in full.
From a data perspective, the main print of the week is the GDP number. 
Conesnus for the print is around 3.2%, but Fed GDPNow has been running above that—about 3.5%. With the headline growth print, we will also get some price action. 
If we get a positive GDP surprise and prices are lower, that is probably the most bullish scenario for price as it signals a strong economy, and prices falling to allow even more accomodation from the fed. 
GDP lower and prices lower is also bullish even if initial price action stalls, because the lower GDP will push the Fed to be accommodative alos, since we have already heard from Powell that the Fed’s decision making is driven by  the labour market and growth concerns. 
GDP miss, and prices higher is the worst case scenario as it signals possible stagflation. 
Higher GDP and higher prices may see an initial drop, but again, not a bad outcome, since we know the Fed is currently dismissing inflation concerns as temporary. 
To me, the GDP higher. Prices lower goldilocks scenario is the most likely. 
For now, consumption continues to act as a buffer for GDP, even as employment conditions soften and forward-looking risks around income growth begin to build. This should hopefully reinforce the fact that GDP numbers come in strong. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/3khHZfrh

Turning to VIX now, things look healthy in terms of the positioning and term structure. 
If we see the term structure, we are trading below the curve, and the curve is clearly upward sloping. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/Hj7D11VC
That speaks to calm expectations going forward for the market. 
And we see that volatility sellers are widespread in terms of the positioning, with put delta ITM dominating. Lots of put delta at 17 acts as a resistance, again so at 19. Call delta at 14.5 acts as a support, albeit quite weak. 
image link: https://postimg.cc/302c47v3
The resistance on the upside seems far more than the support ton the downside which is good for keeping volatility suppressed. 
Credit spreads are heading lower and are well off their highs
image link: https://postimg.cc/JH3p7qfk
All of this speaks to a lack of fear for the overall market, which is good. 
If we look at the straddle for this week, which is determined by option pricing, we see it is quite narrow due to the shortened week. 
We have an implied move of 6770 on the downside, so somewhere in the liquidity zone, whilst SPX on the upside is 6898. We are already quite close to that in premarket, so let’s see if it breaks but that is what the market is pricing. 
If we look at the profile today, we have an iron condor at 6800/6795 and 6860/6865
image link: https://postimg.cc/64KhPZ8x
If the condor does break, there’s a v strong resistance at 6886. And on support, strong support at 6780.
More details on today’s levels will be shared with quant’s update. 
Finally, I want to discuss the TOY study. I did actually make this as a post last night, but I want to write about it here also, as I know this analysis post has strong reach and I want everyone to be aware of it:
So The study is called the Turn of the Year study.
The idea is that the price action over the period where the year turns over a new leaf, has typically been very accurate in predicting forward price action for the year ahead when certain thresholds are met.
The period for the turn of the year refers to is November the 19th to January the 19th.
The study shows that when SPX is up over 3% in that period, typically, the year ahead (hereby referring to January 19th 2026-January 19th 2027 has positive returns in 96% of the instances, dating back to 1950.
we can see the study in full here:
link: https://postimg.cc/1g421B6V
1987 and 2018 were the only anomalies.
IN fact, we see that in the vast majority of the cases, SPX is up over 11%, and in many cases up over 20%.
So this is something I want us to keep an eye on into the new year.
We won't know until teh 19th of January, but we are currently up 3.31% so we would be on track.
Ultimately, this would support the idea that although midterm volatility is of course expected, the year ahead SHOULD be positive if these conditions are met.
My prediction into next year is a volatile year, but positive on SPX, and with the AI trade continuing to lead.
More precise predictions will be shared in my year ahead post, which will be released at the end of the month. I fell behind in working on it a little over teh past week but it is making great progress, and is really interesting to write even, so I hope it will be super insightful to read also.